introduce a version alias mechanism (#2573)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-transport.md

using for private experimentation on the GitHub wiki at
\<https://github.com/quicwg/base-drafts/wiki/QUIC-Versions\>.

## Version Aliases

In order to avoid ossification of the version number defined by this draft,

> servers announce a list of version numbers that they interpret as an alias for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
servers announce a list of version numbers that they interpret as aliases for
```

the version number used in this draft. Alias versions MUST NOT be a reserved
version. Servers SHOULD send at least one version alias, and SHOULD frequently

> change the value that they announce. Each version alias contains a lifetime,

Reviewer 2: If we have this, is there any point to the concept of reserved versions at all? Perhaps this depends on future version negotiation.

Reviewer: This feature is being proposed to grease middleboxes; reserved versions exist to grease the peer endpoint.

which indicates how long the server will accept this version alias. It also

> contains an initial salt, which is used instead of the initial salt as defined

Reviewer 3: We should think hard about using a special salt vs. the v1 salt. Marten has, almost incidentally, engineered a weak form of SNI encryption: if you _really_ want to decode the initial, you can connect to the server yourself and likely get the salt. But a typical firewall won't be able to read the SNI anymore. This is a victory for the end-to-end principle, but perhaps a Pyrrhic one if firewalls just give up and drop QUIC.  I don't have a particularly strong opinion on how to proceed, but want the WG to make this decision deliberately.

Reviewer 4: Even without the salt, the presence of multiple QUIC versions with different salts would force a middle-box to opportunistically decrypt initials using different salts. So if we decide QUIC being blocked because of too much obfuscation is a consideration, this proposal adds to this level even without a salt.

in section 5.2 of {{QUIC-TLS}}. The list of version aliases is sent in the
server's Transport Parameters (see {{transport-parameter-definitions}}).

> Clients SHOULD remember the aliases and use it for subsequent connections to the

Reviewer: Antecedent agreement.  Many possibilities:
- ...remember the aliases and use **them**
- ...remember the **list of** aliases and use it
- ...remember **one of** the aliases and use it

same server in the future. This applies to both 0-RTT connection as well as
connections that don't use 0-RTT.

> 

Reviewer 4: We should add a note that Version Aliases must not be advertised during version negotiation

```suggestion
Version aliases MUST NOT be advertised in version negotiation Packets to avoid conflicts with future versions and experiments.
```

In order to avoid ossification of the version number defined by this draft,
servers announce a list of version numbers that they interpret as aliases for
the version number used in this draft. Alias versions MUST NOT be a reserved
version. A server MUST NOT advertise an alias version number for a version that
it actually supports. If the server advertises an alias version number that the
client actually supports, the client MUST assume the server doesn't support

> that version and ignore the alias.

Reviewer: I don't know that the client has to ignore the alias, per se -- it just needs to be cognizant of what the interpretation of that version will be on that server.  On the other hand, if there's a possibility that the server might acquire support for that version between flights (server upgrade case), perhaps it's better that the client just avoids it entirely after all.

~~~
{: #fig-preferred-address title="Preferred Address format"}

version_aliases (0x000e):

> : A list of version numbers that the server accepts as an alias for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: A list of version numbers that the server accepts as aliases for the
```

>   currently used versions. This transport parameter is only sent by the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  currently used version. This transport parameter is only sent by the server.
```

>   Every version alias contains a lifetime in seconds. The alias is only valid

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Every version alias contains a lifetime in milliseconds. The alias is only valid
```

>   for that lifetime, clients MUST NOT use it after expiry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  for that lifetime. Clients MUST NOT use an expired alias.
```

Comma splice.

> 

Reviewer 4: Should we require the server to announce (some) of the version aliases during their whole lifetime to enable the client to detect downgrade attacks?

Reviewer 5: If the idea that this lifetime is also a commitment to support a given version, then this isn't really a fully effective downgrade-prevention mechanism.  I expect that we'll see something good on that shortly.

I would instead prefer to say that the server is required to honour the alias for the entire advertised lifetime *unless* it also stops supporting that QUIC version.

Reviewer 4: I don't consider this a fully effective downgrade-prevention mechanism, but it provides a mechanism for the client to detect on-path version tapering: If the client gets a version negotiation packet in return to an alias version and receives the same version alias that failed again, it can be sure someone is doing a downgrade attack (or the server is horribly broken).

~~~
   struct {
     uint32 VersionNumber;

>      varint Lifetime;

Reviewer 3: I think we should put some sort of limit on the Lifetime. A server accidentally configured to send out very long lifetimes may create long-term problems for itself. Far better for a client to reject it as invalid! I suggest something on the order of days -- certainly no more than 10^6 seconds.

Reviewer 2: Also, while seconds are fine, do we have seconds as a unit anywhere else - otherwise milliseconds may be a better unit.

Reviewer 4: Making the Lifetime a fixed uint32 in milliseconds would limit the alias to roughly two month. Could be a practical solution as the variant encoding does not really save space for lifetimes in the range of days.

Reviewer 6: I like @philsbln 's suggestion of using uint32 here.

>      varint Lifetime;

Reviewer 7: `varint` is not part of the TLS Presentation Language.

Author: Right. I was hoping for some help from people more familiar with the TLS presentation language on how to write it. We're using varints for all the other transport parameters, but we successfully managed to never actually use presentation language.

>      varint Lifetime;

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
     uint32 lifetime_ms;
```

As others have suggested, include the units.

>      opaque InitialSecret<20>;

Reviewer 5: You want `opaque InitialSalt[20];` or `opaque InitialSalt<20..32>;`  with appropriate values for minimum and maximum.
```suggestion
     opaque initial_secret[20];
```
